content/en/docs/tasks/tools/included/kubectl_installs_linux.md, before:

---
title: "linux kubectl install"
description: "Content for the Linux tab in the main page."
toc_hide: true
---

The following methods exist for installing kubectl on Linux:

- [Install kubectl binary with curl on Linux](#install-kubectl-binary-with-curl-on-linux)
- [Install using native package management](#install-using-native-package-management)
- [Install using other package management](#install-using-other-package-management)
- [Download as part of the Google Cloud SDK](#download-as-part-of-the-google-cloud-sdk)


### Install kubectl binary with curl on Linux

1. Download the latest release with the command:

   ```bash
   curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl"
   ```

   {{< note >}}
To download a specific version, replace the `$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)` portion of the command with the specific version.

For example, to download version {{< param "fullversion" >}} on Linux, type:

   ```bash
   curl -LO https://dl.k8s.io/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
   ```
   {{< /note >}}

1. Validate the binary (optional)

   Download the kubectl checksum file:

   ```bash
   curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl.sha256"
   ```

   Validate the kubectl binary against the checksum file:

   ```bash
   echo "$(<kubectl.sha256) kubectl" | sha256sum --check
   ```

   If valid, the output is:

   ```bash
   kubectl: OK
   ```

   If the check fails, `sha256` exits with nonzero status and prints output similar to:

   ```bash
   kubectl: FAILED
   sha256sum: WARNING: 1 computed checksum did NOT match
   ```

   {{< note >}}
   Download the same version of the binary and checksum.
   {{< /note >}}

1. Install kubectl

   ```bash
   sudo install -o root -g root -m 0755 kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
   ```

   {{< note >}}
   If you do not have root access on the target system, you can still install kubectl to the `~/.local/bin` directory:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p ~/.local/bin/kubectl
   mv ./kubectl ~/.local/bin/kubectl
   # and then add ~/.local/bin/kubectl to $PATH
   ```

   {{< /note >}}

1. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

   ```bash
   kubectl version --client
   ```

### Install using native package management

{{< tabs name="kubectl_install" >}}
{{< tab name="Ubuntu, Debian or HypriotOS" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https gnupg2 curl
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="CentOS, RHEL or Fedora" codelang="bash" >}}cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF
yum install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Install using other package management

{{< tabs name="other_kubectl_install" >}}
{{% tab name="Snap" %}}
If you are on Ubuntu or another Linux distribution that support [snap](https://snapcraft.io/docs/core/install) package manager, kubectl is available as a [snap](https://snapcraft.io/) application.

```shell
snap install kubectl --classic

kubectl version --client
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Homebrew" %}}
If you are on Linux and using [Homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux) package manager, kubectl is available for [installation](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux#install).

```shell
brew install kubectl

kubectl version --client
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Download as part of the Google Cloud SDK

{{< include "kubectl_installs_gcloud.md" >}}

Commit message:

uniqueness for gcloud install headers

content/en/docs/tasks/tools/included/kubectl_installs_linux.md, after:

---
title: "linux kubectl install"
description: "Content for the Linux tab in the main page."
toc_hide: true
---

The following methods exist for installing kubectl on Linux:

- [Install kubectl binary with curl on Linux](#install-kubectl-binary-with-curl-on-linux)
- [Install using native package management](#install-using-native-package-management)
- [Install using other package management](#install-using-other-package-management)
- [Install on Linux as part of the Google Cloud SDK](#install-on-linux-as-part-of-the-google-cloud-sdk)


### Install kubectl binary with curl on Linux

1. Download the latest release with the command:

   ```bash
   curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl"
   ```

   {{< note >}}
To download a specific version, replace the `$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)` portion of the command with the specific version.

For example, to download version {{< param "fullversion" >}} on Linux, type:

   ```bash
   curl -LO https://dl.k8s.io/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
   ```
   {{< /note >}}

1. Validate the binary (optional)

   Download the kubectl checksum file:

   ```bash
   curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl.sha256"
   ```

   Validate the kubectl binary against the checksum file:

   ```bash
   echo "$(<kubectl.sha256) kubectl" | sha256sum --check
   ```

   If valid, the output is:

   ```bash
   kubectl: OK
   ```

   If the check fails, `sha256` exits with nonzero status and prints output similar to:

   ```bash
   kubectl: FAILED
   sha256sum: WARNING: 1 computed checksum did NOT match
   ```

   {{< note >}}
   Download the same version of the binary and checksum.
   {{< /note >}}

1. Install kubectl

   ```bash
   sudo install -o root -g root -m 0755 kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
   ```

   {{< note >}}
   If you do not have root access on the target system, you can still install kubectl to the `~/.local/bin` directory:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p ~/.local/bin/kubectl
   mv ./kubectl ~/.local/bin/kubectl
   # and then add ~/.local/bin/kubectl to $PATH
   ```

   {{< /note >}}

1. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

   ```bash
   kubectl version --client
   ```

### Install using native package management

{{< tabs name="kubectl_install" >}}
{{< tab name="Ubuntu, Debian or HypriotOS" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https gnupg2 curl
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="CentOS, RHEL or Fedora" codelang="bash" >}}cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF
yum install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Install using other package management

{{< tabs name="other_kubectl_install" >}}
{{% tab name="Snap" %}}
If you are on Ubuntu or another Linux distribution that support [snap](https://snapcraft.io/docs/core/install) package manager, kubectl is available as a [snap](https://snapcraft.io/) application.

```shell
snap install kubectl --classic

kubectl version --client
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Homebrew" %}}
If you are on Linux and using [Homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux) package manager, kubectl is available for [installation](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux#install).

```shell
brew install kubectl

kubectl version --client
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Install on Linux as part of the Google Cloud SDK

{{< include "kubectl_installs_gcloud.md" >}}
