## kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig

Generate all kubeconfig files necessary to establish the control plane and the admin kubeconfig file.

### Synopsis


Generate all kubeconfig files necessary to establish the control plane and the admin kubeconfig file.

```
kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --azure-container-registry-config string   Path to the file container Azure container registry configuration information.
      --google-json-key string                   The Google Cloud Platform Service Account JSON Key to use for authentication.
      --version version[=true]                   Print version information and quit
```

### SEE ALSO
* [kubeadm alpha phase](kubeadm_alpha_phase.md)	 - Invoke subsets of kubeadm functions separately for a manual install.
* [kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig admin](kubeadm_alpha_phase_kubeconfig_admin.md)	 - Generate a kubeconfig file for the admin to use and for kubeadm itself.
* [kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig all](kubeadm_alpha_phase_kubeconfig_all.md)	 - Generate all kubeconfig files necessary to establish the control plane and the admin kubeconfig file.
* [kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig controller-manager](kubeadm_alpha_phase_kubeconfig_controller-manager.md)	 - Generate a kubeconfig file for the Controller Manager to use.
* [kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig kubelet](kubeadm_alpha_phase_kubeconfig_kubelet.md)	 - Generate a kubeconfig file for the Kubelet to use. Please note that this should *only* be used for bootstrapping purposes. After your control plane is up, you should request all kubelet credentials from the CSR API.
* [kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig scheduler](kubeadm_alpha_phase_kubeconfig_scheduler.md)	 - Generate a kubeconfig file for the Scheduler to use.
* [kubeadm alpha phase kubeconfig user](kubeadm_alpha_phase_kubeconfig_user.md)	 - Outputs a kubeconfig file for an additional user.

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 8-Oct-2017
