content/en/docs/contribute/new-content/_index.md, before:

---
title: Contributing new content
content_type: concept
main_menu: true
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

This section contains information you should know before contributing new content.




<!-- body -->

## Contributing basics

- Write Kubernetes documentation in Markdown and build the Kubernetes site using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/).
- The source is in [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/website). You can find Kubernetes documentation at `/content/en/docs/`. Some of the reference documentation is automatically generated from scripts in the `update-imported-docs/` directory.
- [Page content types](/docs/contribute/style/page-content-types/) describe the presentation of documentation content in Hugo.
- In addition to the standard Hugo shortcodes, we use a number of
  [custom Hugo shortcodes](/docs/contribute/style/hugo-shortcodes/) in our documentation to control the presentation of content.
- Documentation source is available in multiple languages in `/content/`. Each
  language has its own folder with a two-letter code determined by the
  [ISO 639-1 standard](https://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php). For
  example, English documentation source is stored in `/content/en/docs/`.
- For more information about contributing to documentation in multiple languages or starting a new translation, see [localization](/docs/contribute/localization).

## Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

### Sign the CNCF CLA {#sign-the-cla}

All Kubernetes contributors **must** read the [Contributor guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/README.md) and [sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/CLA.md).

Pull requests from contributors who haven't signed the CLA fail the automated tests. The name and email you provide must match those found in your `git config`, and your git name and email must match those used for the CNCF CLA.

### Choose which Git branch to use

When opening a pull request, you need to know in advance which branch to base your work on.

Scenario | Branch
:---------|:------------
Existing or new English language content for the current release | `main`
Content for a feature change release | The branch which corresponds to the major and minor version the feature change is in, using the pattern `dev-<version>`. For example, if a feature changes in the `v{{< skew nextMinorVersion >}}` release, then add documentation changes to the ``dev-{{< skew nextMinorVersion >}}`` branch.
Content in other languages (localizations) | Use the localization's convention. See the [Localization branching strategy](/docs/contribute/localization/#branching-strategy) for more information.


If you're still not sure which branch to choose, ask in `#sig-docs` on Slack.

{{< note >}}
If you already submitted your pull request and you know that the base branch
was wrong, you (and only you, the submitter) can change it.
{{< /note >}}

### Languages per PR

Limit pull requests to one language per PR. If you need to make an identical change to the same code sample in multiple languages, open a separate PR for each language.

## Tools for contributors

The [doc contributors tools](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/tree/main/content/en/docs/doc-contributor-tools) directory in the `kubernetes/website` repository contains tools to help your contribution journey go more smoothly.

Commit message:

Mentioned Markdown flavor in 'Contributing new content'
Signed-off-by: siddhantprateek <siddhantprateek@gmail.com>

content/en/docs/contribute/new-content/_index.md, after:

---
title: Contributing new content
content_type: concept
main_menu: true
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

This section contains information you should know before contributing new content.




<!-- body -->

## Contributing basics

- Write Kubernetes documentation in Markdown and build the Kubernetes site using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/).
- The source is in [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/website). You can find Kubernetes documentation at `/content/en/docs/`. Some of the reference documentation is automatically generated from scripts in the `update-imported-docs/` directory.
- [Page content types](/docs/contribute/style/page-content-types/) describe the presentation of documentation content in Hugo.
- Kubernetes documentation uses [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/) as its flavor of Markdown. 
- In addition to the standard Hugo shortcodes, we use a number of
  [custom Hugo shortcodes](/docs/contribute/style/hugo-shortcodes/) in our documentation to control the presentation of content.
- Documentation source is available in multiple languages in `/content/`. Each
  language has its own folder with a two-letter code determined by the
  [ISO 639-1 standard](https://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php). For
  example, English documentation source is stored in `/content/en/docs/`.
- For more information about contributing to documentation in multiple languages or starting a new translation, see [localization](/docs/contribute/localization).

## Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

### Sign the CNCF CLA {#sign-the-cla}

All Kubernetes contributors **must** read the [Contributor guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/README.md) and [sign the Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/CLA.md).

Pull requests from contributors who haven't signed the CLA fail the automated tests. The name and email you provide must match those found in your `git config`, and your git name and email must match those used for the CNCF CLA.

### Choose which Git branch to use

When opening a pull request, you need to know in advance which branch to base your work on.

Scenario | Branch
:---------|:------------
Existing or new English language content for the current release | `main`
Content for a feature change release | The branch which corresponds to the major and minor version the feature change is in, using the pattern `dev-<version>`. For example, if a feature changes in the `v{{< skew nextMinorVersion >}}` release, then add documentation changes to the ``dev-{{< skew nextMinorVersion >}}`` branch.
Content in other languages (localizations) | Use the localization's convention. See the [Localization branching strategy](/docs/contribute/localization/#branching-strategy) for more information.


If you're still not sure which branch to choose, ask in `#sig-docs` on Slack.

{{< note >}}
If you already submitted your pull request and you know that the base branch
was wrong, you (and only you, the submitter) can change it.
{{< /note >}}

### Languages per PR

Limit pull requests to one language per PR. If you need to make an identical change to the same code sample in multiple languages, open a separate PR for each language.

## Tools for contributors

The [doc contributors tools](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/tree/main/content/en/docs/doc-contributor-tools) directory in the `kubernetes/website` repository contains tools to help your contribution journey go more smoothly.
