---
title: "Secrets and ConfigMaps"
linkTitle: "Secrets and ConfigMaps"
weight: 3
type: docs
description: >
    Storing Key-Value Pairs and Confidential Data on Clusters
---


{{< alert color="success" title="TL;DR" >}}
- Generate Secrets from files and literals with `secretGenerator`
- Generate ConfigMaps from files and literals with `configMapGenerator`
- Rolling out changes to Secrets and ConfigMaps
{{< /alert >}}

## Motivation

The source of truth for Secret and ConfigMap Resources typically resides
somewhere else, such as a `.properties` file.  Apply offers native support
for generating both Secrets and ConfigMaps from other sources such as files and
literals.

Additionally, Secrets and ConfigMaps require rollouts to be performed
differently than for most other Resources in order for the changes to be
rolled out to Pods consuming them.

## Generators

Secret and ConfigMap Resources can be generated by adding `secretGenerator`
or `configMapGenerator` entries to the `kustomization.yaml` file.

The generated Resources name's will have suffixes that change when their data
changes.  See [Rollouts](#rollouts) for more on this.

### ConfigMapsGenerator

{{% alert color="success" title="Command / Examples" %}}
Check out the [reference](/references/kustomize/kustomization/configmapgenerator/) for commands and examples for `ConfigMapsGenerator`
{{% /alert %}}

Consider we have to generate ConfigMap from a preset values stored in `.properties` file. One can make use
of the following `kustomization.yaml` file to do so.

```yaml
# kustomization.yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
configMapGenerator:
- name: my-application-properties
  files:
  - application.properties

```

```yaml
# application.properties
FOO=Bar
```

We get a generated ConfigMap YAML as output:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
data:
  application.properties: |-
    FOO=Bar
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-application-properties-f7mm6mhf59
```

### SecretGenerator
{{% alert color="success" title="Command / Examples" %}}
Check out the [reference](/references/kustomize/kustomization/secretgenerator/) for commands and examples
for `SecretGenerator`
{{% /alert %}}

## Rollouts

ConfigMap values are consumed by Pods as: environment variables, command line arguments and files.

This is important because Updating a ConfigMap will:

- immediately update the files mounted by *all* Pods consuming them
- not update the environment variables or command line arguments until the Pod is restarted

Typically users want to perform a rolling update of the ConfigMap changes to Pods as soon as
the ConfigMap changes are pushed.

Apply facilitates rolling updates for ConfigMaps by creating a new ConfigMap
for each change to the data.  Workloads (e.g. Deployments, StatefulSets, etc) are updated to point to a new
ConfigMap instead of the old one.  This allows the change to be gradually rolled the same way
other Pod Template changes are rolled out.

Each generated Resources name has a suffix appended by hashing the contents.  This approach ensures a new
ConfigMap is generated each time the contents is modified.

**Note:** Because the Resource names will contain a suffix, when looking for them with `kubectl get`,
their names will not match exactly what is specified in the kustomization.yaml file.