---
title: "Security"
weight: 85
description: >
  Concepts for keeping your cloud-native workload secure.
simple_list: true
---

This section of the Kubernetes documentation aims to help you learn to run
workloads more securely, and about the essential aspects of keeping a
Kubernetes cluster secure.

Kubernetes is based on a cloud-native architecture, and draws on advice from the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="CNCF" term_id="cncf" >}} about good practice for
cloud native information security.

Read [Cloud Native Security and Kubernetes](/docs/concepts/security/cloud-native-security/)
for the broader context about how to secure your cluster and the applications that
you're running on it.

## Kubernetes security mechanisms {#security-mechanisms}

Kubernetes includes several APIs and security controls, as well as ways to
define [policies](#policies) that can form part of how you manage information security.

### Control plane protection

A key security mechanism for any Kubernetes cluster is to
[control access to the Kubernetes API](/docs/concepts/security/controlling-access).

Kubernetes expects you to configure and use TLS to provide
[data encryption in transit](/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/)
within the control plane, and between the control plane and its clients.
You can also enable [encryption at rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/)
for the data stored within Kubernetes control plane; this is separate from using
encryption at rest for your own workloads' data, which might also be a good idea.

### Secrets

The [Secret](/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) API provides basic protection for
configuration values that require confidentiality.

### Workload protection

Enforce [Pod security standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) to
ensure that Pods and their containers are isolated appropriately. You can also use
[RuntimeClasses](/docs/concepts/containers/runtime-class) to define custom isolation
if you need it.

[Network policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) let you control
network traffic between Pods, or between Pods and the network outside your cluster.

You can deploy security controls from the wider ecosystem to implement preventative
or detective controls around Pods, their containers, and the images that run in them.

### Auditing

Kubernetes [audit logging](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/audit/) provides a
security-relevant, chronological set of records documenting the sequence of actions
in a cluster. The cluster audits the activities generated by users, by applications
that use the Kubernetes API, and by the control plane itself.

## Cloud provider security

{{% thirdparty-content vendor="true" %}}

If you are running a Kubernetes cluster on your own hardware or a different cloud provider,
consult your documentation for security best practices.
Here are links to some of the popular cloud providers' security documentation:

{{< table caption="Cloud provider security" >}}

IaaS Provider        | Link |
-------------------- | ------------ |
Alibaba Cloud | https://www.alibabacloud.com/trust-center |
Amazon Web Services | https://aws.amazon.com/security |
Google Cloud Platform | https://cloud.google.com/security |
Huawei Cloud | https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/securecenter/overallsafety |
IBM Cloud | https://www.ibm.com/cloud/security |
Microsoft Azure | https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/azure-security |
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure | https://www.oracle.com/security |
VMware vSphere | https://www.vmware.com/security/hardening-guides |

{{< /table >}}

## Policies

You can define security policies using Kubernetes-native mechanisms,
such as [NetworkPolicy](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)
(declarative control over network packet filtering) or
[ValidatingAdmissionPolicy](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/validating-admission-policy/) (declarative restrictions on what changes
someone can make using the Kubernetes API).

However, you can also rely on policy implementations from the wider
ecosystem around Kubernetes. Kubernetes provides extension mechanisms
to let those ecosystem projects implement their own policy controls
on source code review, container image approval, API access controls,
networking, and more.

For more information about policy mechanisms and Kubernetes,
read [Policies](/docs/concepts/policy/).

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

Learn about related Kubernetes security topics:

* [Securing your cluster](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/)
* [Known vulnerabilities](/docs/reference/issues-security/official-cve-feed/)
  in Kubernetes (and links to further information)
* [Data encryption in transit](/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/) for the control plane
* [Data encryption at rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/)
* [Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API](/docs/concepts/security/controlling-access)
* [Network policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) for Pods
* [Secrets in Kubernetes](/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)
* [Pod security standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
* [RuntimeClasses](/docs/concepts/containers/runtime-class)

Learn the context:

<!-- if changing this, also edit the front matter of content/en/docs/concepts/security/cloud-native-security.md to match; check the no_list setting -->
* [Cloud Native Security and Kubernetes](/docs/concepts/security/cloud-native-security/)

Get certified:

* [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/)
  certification and official training course.

Read more in this section:

