---
layout: blog
title: "Equality"
date: 2022-10-21
slug: equality
evergreen: true
---

**Author:** The Kubernetes Steering Committee

The Kubernetes project supports fundamental human rights and equality.

Over the last few years in particular, there have been a number of world events
where those fundamental rights have been threatened or attacked. Differences in
skin colour, gender, sexual orientation, ideology, religion, or political
affiliation have been used as a basis to erode the one thing we all have in
common: our humanity.

The Black Lives Matter movement, the war in Ukraine, the striking down of Roe v
Wade, and most recently the protests in Iran are just a few examples of where
the lives of people in our community have been impacted by these attacks on
human rights.

Now you might be ask, what does this matter to an open source container
orchestration project? It matters because the software in question is written
and used by humans. We are a community of people, and an attack on one is an
attack on all.

As such, technology can't be apolitical. There isn't room for tolerance of hate.
One of the reasons for the success the Kubernetes project has seen is our
unwavering dedication to [our values]. Inclusivity and respect for the ability
for folks to come together and make things better through collaboration is
fundamental.

We stand with those who fight for the goal of equality and in support of human
rights.

If there are ways that you are being impacted by these or future events, and
there are ways you feel the Kubernetes project could be better supporting you as
a member of our community, please reach out to the Steering Committee at
[steering-private@kubernetes.io].

[our values]: https://www.kubernetes.dev/community/values/
[steering-private@kubernetes.io]: mailto:steering-private@kubernetes.io
