---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.31: kubeadm v1beta4'
date: 2024-08-23
slug: kubernetes-1-31-kubeadm-v1beta4
author: >
   Paco Xu (DaoCloud)
---

As part of the Kubernetes v1.31 release, [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) is
adopting a new ([v1beta4](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)) version of
its configuration file format. Configuration in the previous v1beta3 format is now formally
deprecated, which means it's supported but you should migrate to v1beta4 and stop using
the deprecated format.
Support for v1beta3 configuration will be removed after a minimum of 3 Kubernetes minor releases.

In this article, I'll walk you through key changes;
I'll explain about the kubeadm v1beta4 configuration format,
and how to migrate from v1beta3 to v1beta4.

You can read the reference for the v1beta4 configuration format:
[kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/).

### A list of changes since v1beta3

This version improves on the [v1beta3](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/)
format by fixing some minor issues and adding a few new fields.

To put it simply,

- Two new configuration elements: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration
- For InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration, `dryRun` mode and `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` are supported
- For ClusterConfiguration, there are new fields including `certificateValidityPeriod`,
`caCertificateValidityPeriod`, `encryptionAlgorithm`, `dns.disabled` and `proxy.disabled`.
- Support `extraEnvs` for all control plan components
- `extraArgs` changed from a map to structured extra arguments for duplicates
- Add a `timeouts` structure for init, join, upgrade and reset.

For details, you can see the [official document](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/) below:

- Support custom environment variables in control plane components under `ClusterConfiguration`.
Use `apiServer.extraEnvs`, `controllerManager.extraEnvs`, `scheduler.extraEnvs`, `etcd.local.extraEnvs`.
- The ResetConfiguration API type is now supported in v1beta4. Users are able to reset a node by passing
a `--config` file to `kubeadm reset`.
- `dryRun` mode is now configurable in InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration.
- Replace the existing string/string extra argument maps with structured extra arguments that support duplicates.
 The change applies to `ClusterConfiguration` - `apiServer.extraArgs`, `controllerManager.extraArgs`,
 `scheduler.extraArgs`, `etcd.local.extraArgs`. Also to `nodeRegistrationOptions.kubeletExtraArgs`.
- Added `ClusterConfiguration.encryptionAlgorithm` that can be used to set the asymmetric encryption
 algorithm used for this cluster's keys and certificates. Can be one of "RSA-2048" (default), "RSA-3072",
  "RSA-4096" or "ECDSA-P256".
- Added `ClusterConfiguration.dns.disabled` and `ClusterConfiguration.proxy.disabled` that can be used
  to disable the CoreDNS and kube-proxy addons during cluster initialization.
  Skipping the related addons phases, during cluster creation will set the same fields to `true`.
- Added the `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` field in `InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`,
  which can be used to control if kubeadm pulls images serially or in parallel.
- The UpgradeConfiguration kubeadm API is now supported in v1beta4 when passing `--config` to
  `kubeadm upgrade` subcommands.
  For upgrade subcommands, the usage of component configuration for kubelet and kube-proxy, as well as
  InitConfiguration and ClusterConfiguration, is now deprecated and will be ignored when passing `--config`.
- Added a `timeouts` structure to `InitConfiguration`, `JoinConfiguration`, `ResetConfiguration` and
  `UpgradeConfiguration` that can be used to configure various timeouts.
  The `ClusterConfiguration.timeoutForControlPlane` field is replaced by `timeouts.controlPlaneComponentHealthCheck`.
  The `JoinConfiguration.discovery.timeout` is replaced by `timeouts.discovery`.
- Added a `certificateValidityPeriod` and `caCertificateValidityPeriod` fields to `ClusterConfiguration`.
  These fields can be used to control the validity period of certificates generated by kubeadm during
  sub-commands such as `init`, `join`, `upgrade` and `certs`.
  Default values continue to be 1 year for non-CA certificates and 10 years for CA certificates.
  Also note that only non-CA certificates are renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.

These changes simplify the configuration of tools that use kubeadm
and improve the extensibility of kubeadm itself.

### How to migrate v1beta3 configuration to v1beta4?

If your configuration is not using the latest version, it is recommended that you migrate using
the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/#cmd-config-migrate) command.

This command reads an existing configuration file that uses the old format, and writes a new
file that uses the current format.

#### Example {#example-kubeadm-config-migrate}

Using kubeadm v1.31, run `kubeadm config migrate --old-config old-v1beta3.yaml --new-config new-v1beta4.yaml`

## How do I get involved?

Huge thanks to all the contributors who helped with the design, implementation,
and review of this feature:

- Lubomir I. Ivanov ([neolit123](https://github.com/neolit123))
- Dave Chen([chendave](https://github.com/chendave))
- Paco Xu ([pacoxu](https://github.com/pacoxu))
- Sata Qiu([sataqiu](https://github.com/sataqiu))
- Baofa Fan([carlory](https://github.com/carlory))
- Calvin Chen([calvin0327](https://github.com/calvin0327))
- Ruquan Zhao([ruquanzhao](https://github.com/ruquanzhao))

For those interested in getting involved in future discussions on kubeadm configuration,
you can reach out kubeadm or [SIG-cluster-lifecycle](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-cluster-lifecycle/README.md) by several means:

- v1beta4 related items are tracked in [kubeadm issue #2890](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/2890).
- Slack: [#kubeadm](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kubeadm) or [#sig-cluster-lifecycle](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-cluster-lifecycle)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle)
