---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.31: kubeadm v1beta4'
date: 2024-08-23
slug: kubernetes-1-31-kubeadm-v1beta4
author: >
   Paco Xu (DaoCloud)
---

The [`kubeadm`](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/) configuration
([v1beta4](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/))
is released with Kubernetes v1.31. v1beta3 is still supported,
but is marked as deprecated. It will be removed after a minimum
of 3 Kubernetes releases.

This guide will walk you through key changes and update about the kubeadm v1beta4 configuration,
and how to migrate from v1beta3 to v1beta4.

Details about v1beta4 can be found in the
[API doc]((/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta4/)).
The documentation is maintained in the
[code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/cmd/kubeadm/app/apis/kubeadm/v1beta4/doc.go)
and generated for the kubernetes.io website.

### A list of changes since v1beta3

This version improves on the [v1beta3](/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/)
format by fixing some minor issues and adding a few new fields.

To put it simply,

- Two new API types: ResetConfiguration and UpgradeConfiguration
- For InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration, `dryRun` mode and `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` are supported
- For ClusterConfiguration, we add field including `certificateValidityPeriod`,
`caCertificateValidityPeriod`, `encryptionAlgorithm`, `dns.disabled` and `proxy.disabled`.
- Support `extraEnvs` for all control plan components
- `extraArgs` changed from a map to structured extra arguments for duplicates
- Add a `timeouts` structure for init, join, upgrade and reset.

For details, you can see the official document below:

- Support custom environment variables in control plane components under `ClusterConfiguration`.
Use `apiServer.extraEnvs`, `controllerManager.extraEnvs`, `scheduler.extraEnvs`, `etcd.local.extraEnvs`.
- The ResetConfiguration API type is now supported in v1beta4. Users are able to reset a node by passing
a `--config` file to "kubeadm reset".
- `dryRun` mode is now configurable in InitConfiguration and JoinConfiguration.
- Replace the existing string/string extra argument maps with structured extra arguments that support duplicates.
 The change applies to `ClusterConfiguration` - `apiServer.extraArgs`, `controllerManager.extraArgs`,
 `scheduler.extraArgs`, `etcd.local.extraArgs`. Also to `nodeRegistrationOptions.kubeletExtraArgs`.
- Add `ClusterConfiguration.encryptionAlgorithm` that can be used to set the asymmetric encryption algorithm
used for this cluster's keys and certificates. Can be one of "RSA-2048" (default), "RSA-3072", "RSA-4096" or "ECDSA-P256".
- Add `ClusterConfiguration.dns.disabled` and `ClusterConfiguration.proxy.disabled` that can be used to disable
the CoreDNS and kube-proxy addons during cluster initialization. Skipping the related addons phases,
during cluster creation will set the same fields to `true`.
- Add the `nodeRegistration.imagePullSerial` field in `InitConfiguration` and `JoinConfiguration`, which
can be used to control if kubeadm pulls images serially or in parallel.
- The UpgradeConfiguration kubeadm API is now supported in v1beta4 when passing `--config` to "kubeadm upgrade" subcommands.
For upgrade subcommands, the usage of component configuration for kubelet and kube-proxy, as well as InitConfiguration and
ClusterConfiguration, is deprecated and will be ignored when passing `--config`.
- Add a `timeouts` structure to `InitConfiguration`, `JoinConfiguration`, `ResetConfiguration` and `UpgradeConfiguration`
that can be used to configure various timeouts. The `ClusterConfiguration.timeoutForControlPlane` field is replaced
by `timeouts.controlPlaneComponentHealthCheck`. The `JoinConfiguration.discovery.timeout` is replaced by
`timeouts.discovery`.
- Add a `certificateValidityPeriod` and `caCertificateValidityPeriod` fields to `ClusterConfiguration`. These fields
can be used to control the validity period of certificates generated by kubeadm during sub-commands such as `init`,
`join`, `upgrade` and `certs`. Default values continue to be 1 year for non-CA certificates and 10 years for CA
certificates. Only non-CA certificates continue to be renewable by `kubeadm certs renew`.

These changes simplify the configuration of tools that use kubeadm
and improve the extensibility of kubeadm itself.

### How to migrate v1beta3 configuration to v1beta4?

If your configuration is not using the latest version, it is recommended that you migrate using
the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/#cmd-config-migrate) command.

This command reads an older version of the kubeadm configuration API types from a file,
and writes a newer version of the configuration objects into a new file.

Using kubeadm v1.31, run `kubeadm config migrate --old-config old-v1beta3.yaml --new-config new-v1beta4.yaml`

## How do I get involved?

Huge thanks to all the contributors who helped with the design, implementation,
and review of this feature:

- Lubomir I. Ivanov ([neolit123](https://github.com/neolit123))
- Dave Chen([chendave](https://github.com/chendave))
- Paco Xu ([pacoxu](https://github.com/pacoxu))
- Sata Qiu([sataqiu](https://github.com/sataqiu))
- Baofa Fan([carlory](https://github.com/carlory))
- Calvin Chen([calvin0327](https://github.com/calvin0327))
- Ruquan Zhao([ruquanzhao](https://github.com/ruquanzhao))

For those interested in getting involved in future discussions on kubeadm configuration,
you can reach out kubeadm or [SIG-cluster-lifecycle](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-cluster-lifecycle/README.md) by several means:

- v1beta4 related items are tracked in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/2890.
- Slack: [#kubeadm](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kubeadm) or [#sig-cluster-lifecycle](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-cluster-lifecycle)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle)
