---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.34: Use An Init Container To Define App Environment Variables"
date: 2025-09-10T10:30:00-08:00
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-env-files
author: >
  HirazawaUi
---

Kubernetes typically uses ConfigMaps and Secrets to set environment variables,
which introduces additional API calls and complexity,
For example, you need to separately manage the Pods of your workloads 
and their configurations, while ensuring orderly 
updates for both the configurations and the workload Pods.

Alternatively, you might be using a vendor-supplied container 
that requires environment variables (such as a license key or a one-time token),
but you don’t want to hard-code them or mount volumes just to get the job done.

If that's the situation you are in, you now have a new (alpha) way to
achieve that. Provided you have the `EnvFiles`
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled across your cluster, you can tell the kubelet to load a container's
environment variables from a volume (the volume must be part of the Pod that
the container belongs to).
this feature gate allows you to load environment variables directly from a file in an emptyDir volume
without actually mounting that file into the container.
It’s a simple yet elegant solution to some surprisingly common problems.

## What’s this all about?
At its core, this feature allows you to point your container to a file,
one generated by an `initContainer`,
and have Kubernetes parse that file to set your environment variables.
The file lives in an `emptyDir` volume (a temporary storage space that lasts as long as the pod does),
Your main container doesn’t need to mount the volume.
The kubelet will read the file and inject these variables when the container starts.

## How It Works
Here's a simple example:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
spec:
  initContainers:
  - name: generate-config
    image: busybox
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo "CONFIG_VAR=HELLO" > /config/config.env']
    volumeMounts:
    - name: config-volume
      mountPath: /config
  containers:
  - name: app-container
    image: gcr.io/distroless/static
    env:
    - name: CONFIG_VAR
      valueFrom:
        fileKeyRef:
          path: config.env
          volumeName: config-volume
          key: CONFIG_VAR
  volumes:
  - name: config-volume
    emptyDir: {}
```

Using this approach is a breeze.
You define your environment variables in the pod spec using the `fileKeyRef` field,
which tells Kubernetes where to find the file and which key to pull.
The file itself resembles the standard for .env syntax (think KEY=VALUE),
and (for this alpha stage at least) you must ensure that it is written into
an `emptyDir` volume. Other volume types aren't supported for this feature.
At least one init container must mount that `emptyDir` volume (to write the file),
but the main container doesn’t need to—it just gets the variables handed to it at startup.

## A word on security
While this feature supports handling sensitive data such as keys or tokens, 
note that its implementation relies on `emptyDir` volumes mounted into pod.
Operators with node filesystem access could therefore 
easily retrieve this sensitive data through pod directory paths.

If storing sensitive data like keys or tokens using this feature,
ensure your cluster security policies effectively protect nodes
against unauthorized access to prevent exposure of confidential information.

## Summary
This feature will eliminate a number of complex workarounds used today, simplifying
apps authoring, and opening doors for more use cases. Kubernetes stays flexible and
open for feedback. Tell us how you use this feature or what is missing.